Hi.
We did this lecture we're going to learn how to get the user's location so you know good to work with
the user's location.
We're going to use another library rather than MapQuest.
They don't have to be necessarily connected with each other.
We can get the user's location even though we don't have a map or we may not want to get the user location.
We may just want to display the map as it is.
For example suppose that you're building an app for a cafe you may just want to show the current location
of the cafe without getting the user's location.
But we generally want to use them together to have a good user experience.
The reason I'm telling you all about this is that we have to use another library rather than map kids
to work with user location.
And it's called car location.
So I'm going to go ahead and import that.
So it's import car location.
OK.
So this is the module that we are looking for.
Once we do that we can now work with the user location and in order to do that we're going to have to
do some more set up here as well.
First we are going to create something called location manager.
Okay.
So let's say that this is a location manager and it's going to be a.
Location manager.
So what is a location manager.
As you can see this is an object that we use to start and stop the delivery of location related events.
So this is what we need when we actually want to interact with the user location.
So you can use this term manager you will see this term manager when you work with Swift for example
you will see something called or your manager you will see something called location manager.
It means that it manages the related operations regarding to do this kind of action.
OK.
So if you're talking about locations it's manages to relate to the operations regarding the locations
so that's a fancy word like manager but it's actually what we use to get the location update the location
and that's kind of stuff.
So once we defined that we can call it under our we did load and we can start and stop getting updates
from the user location.
But before we do that we have to make some set up as well.
So let's call our location manager and have it as a delegate or we have a controller here.
OK.
So of course once we do that it will give us an error saying that the view controller is not actually
a Seattle location manager delegate.
So we're going to make it.
So this is going to be a single location manager from now on.
And we're now ready to use our location manager first before we go ahead and get the user's location.
I'm going to set some properties of this location manager for example there is something called desired
day.
It means that's how a create.
I want the location of the user.
Why would I even choose that.
Right.
Just give me the best location.
I'm going to explain.
Don't worry and I'm.
I'm just going to show you the different kinds of options.
We don't have to get the best location available every time if we don't want.
For example let's say that this is the desired take your easy okay location manager that desire.
Think you're as safe as you can see it gives us the location accuracy of the data and you cannot get
this by just hitting dots over here.
You have to just delete these dots and you have to write something called Casey.
OK.
You will see why if you write the case yell you will see it use us as Yeah location accuracy.
And here we have something called location accuracy best.
And this is the best increase that we can get.
Why in the world do we want to use another thing rather than Bast like a kilometer or here.
Because if you choose best it consumes battery the most.
OK.
So you really consume your battery you're to consume your users battery when you choose the accuracy
best.
And in our case we need the best because we're tagging some places like we can tag a restaurant or a
cafe and we can we have to find our way back to that place if I choose the km from here.
It can deviate from the original location for like 500 meters and it won't do good to me because we're
building an app for a traveler which has to find the exact spot that he or she has tagged before.
So I'm going to go for best.
But if you're building an app and if you have claimed something like we're not consuming your battery
we're just performing in an optimal way.
So you might want to choose another option from this list.
But in the in our case we have to go for accuracy best.
So after doing this next thing to do is actually get the permission of the user because we're going
to use the current location of the user.
If you say that requests you will see some options.
So you will see the always authorization and then in use authorization if you choose.
Always authorization it means that you're going to get the user's location always and if you choose
one in use authorization you're only game going to get the users a location then your app is in use.
I'm going to go for one in use authorization because I don't know about you but I just really get suspicious
when some app asks me for my location like every time.
So they will be knowing very my every time.
Okay.
Even though I don't use the app so it's not good for me.
So unless you have a real good reason for doubt I suggest you go for the request when you use authorization
and after that just right.
Location manager dot start updating location.
So it will get the user's location and give it to us but before we go on and do the rest of the stuff
we have to make sure that we provide an explanation a description like we did in the previous section.
I mean try to reach the users photo library remember now we're reaching the user's location.
So we have to provide this kind of explanation in here so go to your info that pill list and click on
the plus buy them and scroll down for privacy.
So we have done this before right.
Right now we're going to go for location and since we have requested that man in use use it.
So just find the location then in use description every gonna write a description in here.
So you realize it has to be something more clear but just for right now I'm just going to say to get
your location or to get access to your location and this message will be displayed to the user so make
sure that you don't write something stupid in here.
It has to be the a real good reason so that user will understand what's going on in the app and this
time we're actually gonna see this message because it requires the user's permission this time and we're
done actually we're going to get the user's location by doing this but we have to say what will happen
after we get the user's location.
So right now we're getting this location and we're not doing nothing with it.
And in order to do that I'm going to call a function called did update location since we have defined
the Seattle location manager delegate to serve we can use this function we can call this function and
it's called did update locations.
OK.
So I'm calling this function although outside of any function but inside of my class as usual.
And as you can see it gives me a location that array and location has the object type of Seattle location
and where we're going to use these locations array OK so that we can get the user's current location.
So this is the function that I can get the current location from and it gives me an array but I can't
just use any element of that there a like I can say locations and bring me the first element.
OK so I can open a parentheses and say zero.
So this will give me the current location of the user this location and I'm going to work with this
array so that I can do whatever I want to do with this location and in our case I want to get this location
and I want to zoom my map on that location.
So our user will see wherever they are.
So they can tag the current place that they're in and in the Seattle location object.
I will get a latitude and longitude remember latitude and longitude from geography classes.
So we use the latitude and longitude to create coordinates right.
So let me create a location and you will see what I mean.
I'm going to create a c at location KC at location this one but not actually this object we're going
to search for C a location coordinate to the.
OK so this is as you can see the latitude and longitude associated with the location.
So we're going to create the location by giving the latitude and longitude.
So where you're going to use this a lot.
So if you open parentheses it will ask you for a latitude and longitude.
So this will create a location later on.
I'm just going to use that location to zoom in.
So where can I get this latitude from.
Of course I'm going to get it from my locations array.
So it's given to me.
And this is the current user's location remember so I'm getting the current users coordinates here.
So I will find t de latitude by saying that location zero.
The first element of the locations.
And if you heat dot and just write coordinates.
Okay.
Coordinate this one it will give me the coordinates itself and I can just say latitude.
So this is how you reach the latitude and longitude of the current user location and of course I'm going
to do the same thing for the longitude as well.
So locations that coordinate that's longitude.
So here you go.
I have created my location.
Next thing to use on the maps is to create this pattern and it means something like zoom level.
So I'm going to choose how much I want to zoom in in the map.
So this is value created so M.K. coordinates span.
So this defines the width and height of a map region.
So by changing the width and height of a region we change the zoom level actually you'll see what I
mean once we do that these smaller these number the more zoom we will see.
So I'm going to go for all point one.
Are we going to test other numbers as well to find our optimum number later on.
All right.
Now you can just go for 0.01.
I generally use all point 0 5 by the way in my apps.
So here.
Later on I'm going to create a region by combining this location and span.
So it's called M.K. K in region and it will ask you for a center and this apparent center means where
I'm going to center this map.
OK.
I'm going to center this around my location so the location will be the current user location.
OK and the spend will be the spend that we have just created.
So right now I can just call the map as a map that said center or set regions or is that region here
and Regan to you.
The region that we have created.
Animation why not.
So let's go for animation.
And here we go.
We actually got the user location we created a location all of that and we have set our map to zoom
into that location.
And here you go once you open the app it asks you for your permission you can just say a low while using
app you can just say a low was or don't allow of course I'm not going to go for Donatello and as you
can see our description is written here.
So I'm going to go for love while using the app and remember your description actually gets here.
So make sure you write something good.
And here you go.
I can see the current location.
So this is the Apple's headquarters location actually.
As you can see we're in a simulator so we simulate the location as well.
So in order to change the simulators location you can come here to debug section rather than hardware.
Yeah.
In the debug you will see something called the location and you can choose one of these predefined locations
for example.
We are at the Apple right now and it sees I chose the apples headquarters.
I can choose another location and it will bring me up there.
And I believe they're fairly close to each other so we cannot see it very efficiently.
It moves a little bit but not too much.
You can't come over here to custom location and you can't give your own latitude and longitude.
Let's do that actually let's open the Google map.
So I'm going to go for maps dot google dot com and you can just choose wherever you want.
Let's go for a fellow traveler for example let's see to our example in the introductory lecture remember
and it gives you the location of the Eiffel Tower.
So if you right click here and say what's here you will see the latitude and longitude of the Eiffel
Tower.
So here you go.
You can also see this latitude and longitude in this you're out tab as well.
So I'm going to get this latitude and longitude.
OK I'm just going to copy them with comments see.
Let's go for both of them actually so that we can do it in the same time.
So let's go for location custom location.
Let's delete this and paste it in here and later on.
I'm gonna delete.
I'm going to cut the longitude I'm pasted in here but it doesn't accept the dots so you have to make
it like every that coma so delete the dots and make it with coma.
Okay.
And you think yet does led to do the longitude from my screen as also the 48.
This is too.
And you have to write the decimals as well that coma once I hit the enter as you can see now I'm display
my map displays actually the map of the PA race so we are now around the Eiffel Tower so it centers
the Eiffel Tower and it zooms in it so that we can't see the map of the Paris.
So far so good.
Now we can actually get the user information on displayed on the map.
Are going to stop here and within the next year we're going to learn how to pin this map.